1.
Character Frequency
Write a program to find the frequency of each character in a string.
Example Input: hello
Example Output: {h=1, e=1, l=2, o=1}


2.

Valid Password or Not

The HR committee of Sunrise Basket Company decided to enforce the following rules when an employee creates/changes his/her password.

1.	Password should be less than 15 and more than 8 characters in length.
2.	Password should contain at least one upper case and one lower case alphabet.   
3.	Password should contain at least one number.
4.	Password should contain at least one special character.
5.	Password should not contain a space.

The program must accept a given password string "password" as input.
Input format :
The input consists of String that represents password.
Output format :
The output should print "<password> is a valid password" or "<password> is a invalid password".
Refer sample output for formatting specifications.
Sample test cases :
Input 1 :
Ex@1234ab
Output 1 :
Ex@1234ab is a valid password
Input 2 :
Ex!!
Output 2 :
Ex!! is a invalid password
Input 3 :
Abcd @1234
Output 3 :
Abcd @1234 is a invalid 




3.
Venue Details

Create a class named Main and create two variables named, venueName and city of type string.
Write a main method to get the venue details in the string separated by a comma. Use String.split() function to display the details.
Input format :
The first line consists of a String that represents the venueName and city.
Output format :
The output should display the venue details.
Refer sample output for formatting specifications.
Sample test cases :
Input 1 :
M. A. Chidambaram Stadium,Chennai
Output 1 :
Venue Details:
Venue Name: M. A. Chidambaram Stadium
City Name: Chennai
Input 2 :
The Oval,London
Output 2 :
Venue Details:
Venue Name: The Oval
City Name: London
Note :
The program will be evaluated only after the “Submit Code” is clicked.
Extra spaces and new line characters in the program output will result in the failure of the test case.



4. Write a program to count number of consonants in given string..read string from user.

5. WAP to read a string from user and convert all the vovels into upper case.

6. WAP to convert First character of every word into upper case.
